# Meeting Notes

## Table of Contents

 - [2022-06-10](#date-2022-06-10)
 - [2022-06-03](#date-2022-06-03)
 - [2022-05-27](#date-2022-05-27)
 - [2022-05-20](#date-2022-05-20)
 - [2022-05-13](#date-2022-05-13)
 - [2022-05-06](#date-2022-05-06)
 - [2022-04-29](#date-2022-04-29)
 - [2022-04-22](#date-2022-04-22)
 - [2022-04-15](#date-2022-04-15)
 - [2022-04-08](#date-2022-04-08)
 - [2022-03-25](#date-2022-03-25)
 - [2022-03-18](#date-2022-03-18)
 - [2022-02-25](#date-2022-02-25)
 - [2022-02-18](#date-2022-02-18)
 - [2022-02-11](#date-2022-02-11)
 - [2022-02-04](#date-2022-02-04)
 - [2022-01-28](#date-2022-01-28)
 - [2022-01-21](#date-2022-01-21)
 - [2022-01-14](#date-2022-01-14)
 - [2022-01-07](#date-2022-01-07)

### Date: [INSERT DATE OF MEETING]

#### Who did you help this week?

Replace this text with a one/two sentence description of who you helped this week and how.

#### Who helped you this week?

Replace this text with a one/two sentence description of who helped you this week and how.

#### What did you achieve?

* Replace this text with a bullet point list of what you achieved this week.
* It's ok if your list is only one bullet point long!
 - []()

#### What did you struggle with?

* Replace this text with a bullet point list of where you struggled this week.
* It's ok if your list is only one bullet point long!

#### What would you like to work on next week?

* Replace this text with a bullet point list of what you would like to work on next week.
* It's ok if your list is only one bullet point long!
* Try to estimate how long each task will take.

#### Where do you need help from François?

* Replace this text with a bullet point list of what you need help from François on.
* It's ok if your list is only one bullet point long!
* Try to estimate how long each task will take.

#### What did you learn this week?

* Replace this text with a bullet point list of what you have learned this week.
* It's ok if your list is only one bullet point long!
* The goal of this section is to keep track of progress on professional develop and
  other learning opportunities that arose during the week.

#### Any other topics

This space is yours to add to as needed.

### Date: 2022-06-10

Note: this was written on 2022-06-20 and contains information from 06-13

#### Who did you help this week?

I helped Sarah Stevens draft text for her CarpentryCon proposal submission.

#### Who helped you this week?

Hooboy, Kari helped me by checking in on me. Erin helped me by talking with me
before I took sick time this week. Joel and David helped me by understanding
when I had to cancel our meeting.

#### What did you achieve?

I had a bit of a limited week due to my approaching  burnout, but I was able to
get the following completed:

 - [created a list of lessons in workbench Beta Testing](https://github.com/carpentries/workbench/discussions/11)
 - [Created a post about keeping up to date with The Workbench](https://github.com/carpentries/workbench/discussions/12)
 - [{varnish} renamed CHAPTERS to EPISODES](https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/pull/45)
 - [{varnish} Disabled search](https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/issues/42)
 - [{varnish} added persistant state for menu collapse](https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/issues/43)
 - [{sandpaper} update `create_episodes()` to create a slug from the title](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/295)
 - [{sandpaper} add new functions to support markdown-first lessons](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/297)
 - [(lesson-tranistion) did a lot of things to try to make it work on CI](https://github.com/data-lessons/lesson-transition/commits?author=zkamvar&since=2022-06-06&until=2022-06-11)
 - [fixed an error in pkgdown](https://github.com/r-lib/pkgdown/pull/2121)
 - [published dovetail blog post](https://github.com/carpentries/carpentries.org/pull/1418)
 - I helped lead a session of maintainer onboarding and atteneded a DEI call.
 - I attended a call for my RStudio conference talk.

#### What did you struggle with?

I struggled a lot with burnout and also learning about [redacted]. It's a big
change and while I know there are systems in place to make sure everything
keeps running, it's a difficult situation after two and a half years. Luckily I
was able to spot the burnout early enough that it did not begin to affect my
health too much, but it's something that I do need to be careful of. 

I also struggled with figuring out the appropriate time to schedule the testing
and figuring out how to work around the blockers. One of my faults is that I do
not like not knowing the details of a plan that I will be involved in. In this
case, not knowing the details of how the beta lessons would be deployed to AWS
or how the lesson release process works sent me into a negative thought spiral
where I was unable to concentrate on anything but worrying about how I would 
burden my supervisor by asking him to perform these tasks. This is a fault of
mine that I have not effectively communicated or managed and it's really tearing
me a new one.

#### What would you like to work on next week?

Note: this will be for this current week

- Come up with a rough draft of my RStudio::conf talk, centering around the
  carpentries core values
- Come up with schedule for beta testing 
- Add some content to the Moore Grant final report

#### Where do you need help from François?

- sobs

#### What did you learn this week?

I learned that it's okay and necessary to take a step back, even if everything
seems urgent, and disconnect from work. I was getting to the point where I was
not sleeping well and I knew that I needed to disconnect and descramble my brain.

#### Any other topics

François, I want you to know that you are the best supervisor that I've ever
had. You are always the best defence against my self-deprecation and you have
never been less than kind and professional in our work together. 

### Date: 2022-06-03

#### Who did you help this week?

I helped Alycia with reviewing content for the followup blog post on 
internationalisation and I shared the styles/workbench icons with Toby. I also
helped confirm that we could close an issue in our strategic plan repository.

#### Who helped you this week?

Erin helped me by talking through the challenges of doing the maintainer
onboarding with the workbench still in beta. She reminded me that I can submit
a skillup session for The Carpentries Workbench. Toby helped me out by giving 
me support during difficult times. Talisha helped me understand what I need to
do to get stickers ordered for the RStudio conference and for the voulenteers.

#### What did you achieve?

This week was a bit of a slow week because I had taken Wednesday off and reading
and reflection day was spent fighting continuous integration.

 - [(lesson-transiton) I attempted to make this work purely on github actions, but the R resources are killing me](https://github.com/data-lessons/lesson-transition/commits?author=zkamvar&since=2022-05-30&until=2022-06-04)
 - [{varnish} I added a lesson status tag for lessons in pre-alpha to beta](https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/pull/39)
 - [{varnish} add issue to address link validation for a common error with space between braces](https://github.com/carpentries/pegboard/issues/90)
 - [(r-universe) attempt to fix a bug in the r-universe deployment chain](https://github.com/r-universe-org/sync/pull/3)
 - [(workbench documentation) added descritpion for long alt text and decorative images](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper-docs/commits?author=zkamvar&since=2022-05-30&until=2022-06-04)
 - [(actions) setup sandpaper even if config.yaml doesn't exist](https://github.com/carpentries/actions/commit/0494391e4cd0059c0a5b9a4c780625e650aa8bc7)
 - [(Lesson Devel Training) Reviewed draft of operations episode](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-development-training/pull/47)
 - [(maintainer onboarding) I started a pull request to update chapter 4](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-onboarding/pull/63)
 - I reviewed the new website layout

#### What did you struggle with?

* I struggled a lot with continuous integration
* I also struggled a lot with prioritizing things in the light of needing to
  get the transition script ready and prepping the beta phase volunteers.

#### What would you like to work on next week?

Next week is a long week with a potential for 16 hours of that week in meetings.

* write and publish the Dovetail
* Update my job plan for May and June
* Contact beta phase volunteers about when we can expect to start
* Schedule a vacation at the end of June

#### Where do you need help from François?

 - provide a realistic timeline for when the new URLs will be available. It's
   okay if we have to delay.

#### What did you learn this week?

* I don't recall finding out anything terribly new.

#### Any other topics

I am realising that I have taken a single day off in the last two months. This
on top of everythign that's been going on... I can say that I think I'm starting
to burn out. The problem is that I have a lot of time-sensitive things that I
need to work on and a lot of things that are pulling me in different directions.
Because of this, it seems like there is never going to be a good time for me to
take a rest in the next few months, especially if we get the beta phase going.

I noticed that the last time I had a vacation was the end of March and the last
time that I had commits straight through for two months was August to October
2021 in which I was hella tired and rundown by the end of it. 

### Date: 2022-05-27

(note: written on 2022-05-30)

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I helped Saba track down an error in a lesson build (it turned out to be a 
   DNS issue with CRAN and RStudio)
 - I helped Erin by posting the final call for maintainer applications to twitter
 - I found a real-world example of using variables in the website.

#### Who helped you this week?

 - Alycia helped me by running and organising the translation community call this week
 - Alycia helped me by running and organising the data sovereignty meeting without me this week
 - The Core Team helped me by giving me honest feedback about what they knew and didn't know about The Workbench

#### What did you achieve?
 
 - Demonstrated The Workbench to participants at the Research Software Camp
 - Lead the Lab Meeting for the week
 - I got 16 responses for the Beta Phase of the Workbench with 9 followups (5 incubator maintainers, 2 maintainers, 2 instructors)
 - [I wrote and published the first dovetail blogpost](https://github.com/carpentries/carpentries.org/pull/1416)
 - [{sandpaper} updated pr-receive workflow to emit {pegboard} checks when processing](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/291)
 - [{sandpaper} removed outdated content in update workflows](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/292)
 - [(actions) use job summaries for validation workflows](https://github.com/carpentries/actions/pull/45)
 - [{pegboard} added summary methods and message muffler for Lesson and Episode objects](https://github.com/carpentries/pegboard/pull/89)
 - [carpentries.org added .vendor to .gitignore](https://github.com/carpentries/carpentries.org/pull/1417)
 - [reviewed a PR from Sarah Stevens for the workbench documentation](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper-docs/pull/86)

#### What did you struggle with?

 - This was a very diffuclt week emotionally. I took a half day on Thursday to
   recover mentally.
 - I struggled with trying to define and set my own boundaries with what is
   possible for me to support in terms of the beta phase. 

#### What would you like to work on next week?

 - draft testing plan timeline for the beta phase participants
 - modify lesson transition tool to have specific pathways
 - write up deployment strategy for the beta phase
 - add general 'asis' node fixer for {tinkr}
 - release {tinkr} to CRAN
 - review new Carpentries Website Layout

#### Where do you need help from François?

 - Implement one-to-one user/repo deployment of beta phase lessons on the AWS
   side.

#### What did you learn this week?

 - I learned that there is no hard and fast rule for how long alt text should be
   <https://css-tricks.com/just-how-long-should-alt-text-be/>

#### Any other topics

This summer is definitely going to be pretty heavy.

### Date: 2022-05-20

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I helped validate Alycia's thoughts about the i18n call next week
 - I addressed some slack helpdesk issues

#### Who helped you this week?

 - Toby and Erin helped me understand how the maintainer onboarding call and the
   workbench beta call fit in and complement one another
 - Sher! and Erin helped me understand the bounds of what we can and cannot
   accomplish with the workbench beta phase in terms of COW. 

#### What did you achieve?

 - [{downlit} I fixed a small bug in downlit](https://github.com/r-lib/downlit/pull/138)
 - [{sandpaper} I fixed a small bug with rendering the R-raster-vector-geospatial lesson](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/289)
 - [{sandpaper} fixed a small bug where ampersands in titles would cause the AIO page to not be built](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/287)
 - [{varnish} testing out alert banner for beta phase](https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/pull/38)
 - [{pegboard} added a kludge for a situation where captions contain URLs and are parsed by markdown](https://github.com/carpentries/pegboard/pull/87)
 - [{tinkr} added workflows](https://github.com/ropensci/tinkr/pull/70)
 - [{tinkr} started drafting a namespaceless tinkr (need refactor for pegboard, tho)](https://github.com/ropensci/tinkr/pull/69)
 - [trainer-training: updated styles](https://github.com/carpentries/trainer-training/pull/49)
 - [added backgrounds to the brand identity page on our docs](https://github.com/carpentries/docs.carpentries.org/pull/842)

#### What did you struggle with?

I struggled with a lot. Part of my struggle was trying to come to terms that I
really can not take on much more work. Another part was trying to refactor
{pegboard} to not use namespaces... it's going to take a bit more time. This is 
all on top of trying to figure out what _exactly_ to do with the beta phase.

#### What would you like to work on next week?

 - I want to create a test lesson with issues and pull requests that I can use to demonstrate the transition
 - Add workbench beta alert to the lessons in beta
 - Send communication to the respondents of the beta phase

#### Where do you need help from François?

 - Nowhere right now

#### What did you learn this week?

 - bootstrap has a dismissable alert that works pretty well with our site... but the close button gets obscured because of our CSS `-_-`

#### Any other topics

None. I'm tired.

### Date: 2022-05-13

#### Who did you help this week?

Replace this text with a one/two sentence description of who you helped this week and how.

#### Who helped you this week?

Replace this text with a one/two sentence description of who helped you this week and how.

#### What did you achieve?

 - [(lesson-development-training) addressed several questions from Toby](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-development-training/pull/41)
 - [(sandpaper-docs) added a component guide](https://github.com/carpentries/lesson-development-training/pull/41#discussion_r868190338)
 - [{sandpaper} diagnosed an issue with the package cache that was brought up by LearnToDiscover](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/issues/283)
 - [{pegboard} updated `fix_links()` to process headings](https://github.com/carpentries/pegboard/pull/86)
 - [{varnish} fixed a visual bug where the navbar dropdown would be covered by the sidebar](https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/pull/36)
 - [(instructor-training) fixed non-compliant mailto links](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1368)
 - [(maintainer-onboarding) reviewed Erin's changes](https://github.com/carpentries/maintainer-onboarding/pull/62)
 - [(incubator/metagenomics) diagnosed an issue where math support was missing](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/metagenomics/issues/31#issuecomment-1125509310)
 - [(blog post) addressed comments from Annajiat](https://github.com/carpentries/carpentries.org/commits?author=zkamvar&since=2022-05-09&until=2022-05-14)
 - [(workbench documentation) updated folder structure image to match content](https://github.com/carpentries/workbench/commit/7e09ebce0ba59f52297da4005c1e0b5b68e98244)
 - [(workbench) had the beginning of a discussion about i18n during the beta phase and the challenges therein](https://github.com/carpentries/workbench/discussions/6)
 - I Communicated about the Beta Phase to the Alpha testers and the various communities
 - I reran the lesson transition script

#### What did you struggle with?

 - I struggled a lot with trying to figure out how to respond about i18n during
   the beta phase. It was difficult for me to come up with the right way to
   emphasise that it is a priority, but I need more time and discussion in
   order to properly implement it. 

#### What would you like to work on next week?

 - I want to create a test lesson with issues and pull requests that I can use to demonstrate the transition
 - I want to bump my call for maintainers because right now I have a total of seven :grimace:

#### Where do you need help from François?

I need to understand how the new URLs will work. The matomo integration that we
are using for the workbench is assuming that we have `lessons.carpentries.org`,
but when we discussed the beta phase, we had the urls going to 
`lessons.<program>.org`. It's not a big deal to change the matomo settings, but 
I think we really need to hash out what our expectations for the final URLs are
with versioning and i18n included:
<https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/issues/216> because at the moment, I
feel like we don't have a solid grasp of what we want to do and are making
quick changes without taking into account the full scope of work.

#### What did you learn this week?

- I learned that I still freeze up when tasked with communicating about large
  and complex topics.

#### Any other topics

I realise that my timing with the beta phase is... well... bad. The reason I
know it's bad is because Erin is recruiting for Maintainer onboarding for June.
So, we are going to have potentially 25-50 maintainers onboarded who are
learning the styles version of the lesson and then have to re-train to switch to
the workbench if the previous maintainer elect to switch to the workbench. :weary:

### Date: 2022-05-06

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I contributed to a discussion about translations for The Workbench.
 - I clarified how folks should use equations inside the incubator template

#### Who helped you this week?

 - Karen and François gave me feedback on the blog post
 - Erin clarified the data she entered into AMY (so that I can use that as the
   primary source for removing access for maintainers who have stepped down)
 - Erin, François, and Toby helped me with a discussion about terminology in
   the workbench.
 - Karen and Maneesha reminded me about how to give a task to multiple people
   and we jointly discovered that Asana is subtly fucking with us.

#### What did you achieve?

 - [(workbench) I authored a transition guide between the workbench and styles](https://carpentries.github.io/workbench/transition-guide.html)
 - [I finalized and published the blog post about the beta phase](https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/05/workbench-beta/)
 - [{varnish} added lab and incubator logos](https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/pull/30)
 - [{varnish} add blockquote styling](https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/pull/31)
 - [(actions) added quickfix and backup for the R-universe API](https://github.com/carpentries/actions/pull/42)
 - [(actions) more reliably enforce RSPM availability on runners](https://github.com/carpentries/actions/pull/43)
 - [{sandpaper} updated workflows to no longer install R from external sources; use v2 of the r-lib actions; set GITHUB_TOKEN permissions](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/279)
 - [(workbench forum) answered a question about tabsets in the workbench](https://github.com/carpentries/workbench/discussions/5#discussioncomment-2701675)
 - I presented the beta phase to the trainer community
 - I re-ran the lesson transition script and fixed some assumptions (e.g. changing guide.md -> instructor-notes.md)

#### What did you struggle with?

 - I didn't struggle that much this week. I took time off when I needed to take
   time off. I think a lot of struggle was again prioritisation, but it's
   minor.

#### What would you like to work on next week?

 - Communicate about the Beta Phase to the Alpha testers and the various communities
 - Update the lesson transition script and add some more lessons
 - Create an example of a repository transition 

#### Where do you need help from François?

* nowhere at the moment

#### What did you learn this week?

 - Mermaid diagrams ARE possible in our infrastructure and they work similar to 
   how mathjax is processed! https://css-tricks.com/making-mermaid-diagrams-in-markdown/

#### Any other topics

Emergency vet bills can escalate rather quickly!

### Date: 2022-04-29

#### Who did you help this week?

I helped Erin by fleshing out the Curriculum section in the annual report blog post when she was feeling overwhelmed.
I additionally reviewed content for Sarah Stevens. 
I made a PR for Matt's lesson that properly tagged it as a data carpentry lesson.

#### Who helped you this week?

François, Erin, Michael, and Karen helped me by giving me feedback on my beta blog post.
Omar gave me appropriate context for scheduling a blog post. 

#### What did you achieve?

 - [(workbench beta) I documented how to create a friction log](https://github.com/carpentries/workbench/discussions/2)
 - [(workbench blog) I drafted the workbench beta blog post](https://github.com/carpentries/carpentries.org/pull/1375)
 - [(workbench discussion) I created a discussion forum and comparison document (incomplete) for the workbench](https://github.com/carpentries/workbench)
 - [(workbench documentation) I addressed missing documentation for code blocks](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper-docs/issues/80)
 - [(docs.carpentries.org) I updated the markdown parser](https://github.com/carpentries/docs.carpentries.org/pull/838)

#### What did you struggle with?

 - I struggled a bit with prioritisation and trying to find balance between getting things done and getting things perfect.

#### What would you like to work on next week?

 - Update the lesson transition script and add some more lessons

#### Where do you need help from François?

* nowhere at the moment

#### What did you learn this week?

* The neovim that comes from debian has bug that can trap you in insert mode after pasting certain characters: https://github.com/neovim/neovim/issues/11699

#### Any other topics

Nope! I'm done for the week!

### Date: 2022-04-22

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I uploaded my excalidraw library for Alycia
 - I clarified the Beta Phase of the Workbench Transistion to the maintainers

#### Who helped you this week?

 - Dan asked a really good question about how to re-train maintainers
 - Omar addressed my question about putting our logo in a public library 

#### What did you achieve?

 - []()
 - I spoke with the Instructor Development Committee about beta phase testing
 - [I organised the phases of the transition plan](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EMQubuCyw39YrjxuSooGLRJ1SKYE5ZY68uJib5ZigI4/edit#heading=h.up2cdet4w24u)
 - [I created and delivered a presentation for the Maintainers about the beta phase](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qA9U4BkLKW_kOn696jKkDbUgv910_i-sGbHTZ9tyURQ/edit?usp=sharing)
 - [{sandpaper} I refactored the aio page and keypoints to use an internal aggregator](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/272)
 - [{sandpaper} I added images and instructor notes aggregators](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/272)
 - [{sandpaper} I updated the package checks](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/275)
 - [{sandpaper} I experimented with setting install-r: false in the install-r github action](https://github.com/zkamvar/feverish-cowbell/commit/a7441db31ff23754efa815876ca9e6cf2ada1193) (more context can be found at https://epiforecasts.io/posts/2022-04-11-robust-actions/index.html)

#### What did you struggle with?

I think I struggled with refactoring, mostly

#### What would you like to work on next week?

 - Develop Beta Phase opt-in forms
 - Write up Beta Phase Blog Post announcing the beta phase
    - contact IDC, Karen, Dan for feedback
 - Update lesson-transition script

#### Where do you need help from François?

AWS setup for beta phase

#### Any other topics

I got the RStudio diversity scholarship and my talk was accepted! Now I just gotta write the thing!

### Date: 2022-04-15

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I helped Danielle with a couple od things
 - I helped David P. understand the scope of suggested changes
 - I helped Christian K. understand the process of updating the lesson.

#### Who helped you this week?

 - Not sure

#### What did you achieve?

 - []()
 - [(actions) I made a quick fix for the changes in the R-universe API](https://github.com/carpentries/actions/commit/64484cf3bfc20c50538018feddec1c05a1400948)
 - [{sandpaper} I added the all in one page](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/271)
 - [(lesson-transition) I created more diagrams that better illustrate the processs](https://github.com/data-lessons/lesson-transition#readme)
 - [{sandpaper} I began refactoring the provisioning of pages like keypoints and aio that use rendered elements](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/compare/0.4.0...common-html)

#### What did you struggle with?

My left middle finger became strained on Wednesday and I had to take half of Thursday off to deal with it. It is difficult to type with nine fingers and the doctor recommended that I rest the finger. 

#### What would you like to work on next week?

 - Review my plan for the month
 - Review my Curriculum Team and Roadmap Plan
 - Document metadata for lessons
 - Write images page

#### Where do you need help from François?

I need to understand if my planning makes any sense or if there are gaps anywhere. 

#### Any other topics

This week wqas a bit ofa tyrain wreck.

### Date: 2022-04-08

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I helped Erin by running the code to reitire maintainers who opted-out of
   maintainership via the survey.
 - I blocked a malicious user from our orgs
 - I set a slack channel that was accidentally public to private
 - I was able to respond to queries from https://github.com/r-devel/r-bug-tracking-lesson

#### Who helped you this week?

 - François helped me by recovering the names of my community discussion participants
 - Kari helped me by taking a look at my plan for the beta phase conversion
 - Sher! helped me by adding me to the IDC agenda

#### What did you achieve?

 - []()
 - [I created a more concrete transition plan including a diagram](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EMQubuCyw39YrjxuSooGLRJ1SKYE5ZY68uJib5ZigI4/)
 - I ran two community discussions on the workbench
 - [{varnish} I added updates that allow custom engines to show through](https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/releases/tag/0.1.8)
 - [{sandpaper} I updated sandpaper to update with the varnish version](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/releases/tag/0.3.6)
 - [(styles) I reviewd François' transition setup for styles](https://github.com/carpentries/styles/pull/637)

#### What did you struggle with?

I think I struggled a bit with planning the beta phase.

#### What would you like to work on next week?

 - Review my plan for the month
 - Review my Curriculum Team and Roadmap Plan
 - Document metadata for lessons
 - Write images page

#### Where do you need help from François?

I need to understand if my planning makes any sense or if there are gaps anywhere. 

#### Any other topics

It's really nice to see that the project is getting traction outside of our organisation. I'm really glad that the R folks have picked it up and their usage is showing me the gaps in the documentation that I didn't have previously. In a way these are the pre-beta testers. One of the things I'm feeling is that I need to really set a formal way of getting feedback from participants, but I don't have a coherent plan for managing or analysing that right now. I think this might be an area where Kelly or Karen may be able to help, but ultimately I'm not sure. 

### Date: 2022-03-25

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I helped Erin fixing some R code that's been handed down to draw our cumulative impact map, but was broken due to new tags in our system.
 - I also helped Erin by writing API calls to get the team information for each repository
 - I helped Kari by anonymizing the DoF applications
 - I helped folks in the welcome session on Wednesday by providing help with slack. 

#### Who helped you this week?

 - Erin and Françios helped me by reviewing my RStudio submission
 - François helped me by brainstorming deployment ideas for the beta phase
 - Michael helpe me by presenting the results from the LPTF

#### What did you achieve?

 - [{tinkr} fixed a bug that appeared in commonmark 1.8](https://github.com/ropensci/tinkr/pull/67)
 - [(beta phase) I wrote the transition script for the r-socialsci lesson](https://github.com/data-lessons/lesson-transition/commits?author=zkamvar&since=2022-03-21&until=2022-03-26)
 - I submitted my Diversity Scholarship submission
 - I submitted my rstudio::conf(2022) submission
 - I anonymized 34 applications for DoF
 - I wrote a script that identifies the teams per repository for our orgs
 - I tested out a dual-deployment strategy for our lessons in beta phase;
   François and I decided that we should go with a static gh-pages and a
   dynamic beta. We will make changes to the static gh-pages at the end of the
   beta phase
 - François and I wrote up a plan for the beta phase deployment

#### What did you struggle with?

I struggled a bit with prioritizing tasks, but I think I made it out okay in the end.

#### What would you like to work on next week?

Nothing. I will be on Vacation

#### Where do you need help from François?

Communicate to the beta repos

#### Any other topics

Nope: vacation

### Date: 2022-03-18

Note: This comes three weeks after the last update for the following reasons:

Week of the 27th: I worked two days due to moving, mental issues, and a personal holiday. I spoke with Sher! and Danielle about the Instructor community and fixed some things regarding links and workflows in sandpaper. 

Week of the 6th: This was the retreat and I broke my charger on the second day, so I wasn't able to get much accomplished.

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I added context for Alycia's question about licensing to the legal expert questions document
 - I helped Danielle and Daniel Chávez by updating his workshop-es page with the correct survey links and CSS: https://github.com/dechavezv/2022-05-07-Ecuador-PUCE/pull/1
 - I helped myself by taking rest yesterday when I was not in a good mental state

#### Who helped you this week?

 - Erin, Toby, and François reminded me to be kinder to myself when I was feeling like a pile of garbage wrapped in human skin
 - Kari encouraged me to apply to funding from RStudio
 - Michael explained his workflow to me to help me understand why the R-Ecology lesson was not passing checks
 - François helped me figure out a better plan for the beta phase the workbench
 - Toby brainstormed with me about the beta phase and helped me realize that it's better to push things back
 - Erin gave feedback on my RStudio submission

#### What did you achieve?

 - [(actions) I added a pinning mechanism to our actions for sandpaper and varnish](https://github.com/carpentries/actions/pull/40)
 - I demonstrated the workbench to a couple of maintainers at the maintainer meetings. 
 - [{renv} I discovered an issue with renv that prevents our lessons from processing yaml chunk syntax](https://github.com/rstudio/renv/issues/963)
 - I wrote a first draft of my RStudio::conf(2022) submission.

#### What did you struggle with?

Again, I struggled with a lot of things. I had to take a sick day on Thursday to
clear my mental space. (This is unchanged from three weeks ago!)

#### What would you like to work on next week?

* submit RStudio conf talk
* finalize Beta Phase Communication Plan
* re-draft branch of varnish that uses the styles template for testing

#### Where do you need help from François?

Review of the RStudio application and Beta Phase Plan (once it comes out)

#### Any other topics

I just want to reiterate how utterly cool this is: https://sabaferdous12.github.io/lesson2_sandpaper/01-introduction.html

### Date: 2022-02-25

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I helped Maneesha with the welcome session
 - I helped Toby and Sarah by fixing more bugs in the workbench
 - I helped the Toby and the maintainers of the r-socialsci lesson to figure out what to do with extra content for the styles repo

#### Who helped you this week?

 - Toby and Sarah helped me by providing useful feedback on the behavior of the infrastructure
 - Jeroen helped me by confirming that the API for R-Universe changed
 - Toby helped by asking important questions about features that have not yet been implemented and by positing the real benefits of the workbench
 - Aleksandra helped me by showing a desire path that existed for the styles template that is no longer valid in the new infrastructure
 - Aleksandra and Toby helped me by providing feedback on the template mechanism for the infrastructure, making me realise that I could make it easier
 - Omar, Alycia, and Danielle helped me by responding to my queries about communication and organising
 - François helped me by talking through a potential AWS integration.


#### What did you achieve?

 - I spoke with Omar and Alycia about the strategy for lead up and during the beta phase of the workbench. In essence:
   - clearly advertise the sessions in advance of the sessions
   - give people tasks
   - make the beta phase issues easy to spot via github labels
   - focus communication on GitHub and add responders to the other channels notifying people that the response will be slower there
 - I commented on a lot of PRs in the lesson development training repo
 - [{sandpaper} I merged the PR to add the links.md file](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/257)
 - [{sandpaper} I fixed a bug with links and footnotes](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/258)
 - [{pegboard} same as above](https://github.com/carpentries/pegboard/pull/82)
 - [(actions) I fixed a bug due to the R-universe API changes](https://github.com/carpentries/actions/pull/38)
 - [(lesson tranistion) I added three more repositories and maybe figured out submodules](https://github.com/data-lessons/lesson-transition/commits?author=zkamvar&since=2022-02-22&until=2022-02-26)
 - [(Workbench Documentation) I updated the documentation to include links and proper setup](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper-docs/commit/f6e52b526b8fe0d4c126ad1ccfe770d621d31eea)
 - []()

#### What did you struggle with?

Again, I struggled with a lot of things. I had to take a sick day on Thursday to
clear my mental space.

#### What would you like to work on next week?

* implement the search bar for the lessons
* implement the AIO page
* finalize beta phase plan
* prepare for the CT retreat skillup

#### Where do you need help from François?

Nowhere at the moment.

#### Any other topics

I just want to reiterate how utterly cool this is: https://sabaferdous12.github.io/lesson2_sandpaper/01-introduction.html

### Date: 2022-02-18

(updated on 2022-02-22)

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I can not remember who I helped. I normally check slack for this, but it is down :/

#### Who helped you this week?

 - Toby and Sarah helped me by providing useful feedback on the behavior of the infrastructure
 - I know I have more, but again... slack is down.

#### What did you achieve?

 - I submitted the UseR! 2022 proposal
 - [{pegboard} I added a validate divs method](https://github.com/carpentries/pegboard/pull/78)
 - [{sandpaper} I integrated validation into the lesson building](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/255)
 - [{sandpaper} Started PR to provide common links.md](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/257)
 - [{sandpaper} fixed a bug from {cli}](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/issues/252)
 - [(RStudio) reported on a bug/feature with updating packages](https://github.com/rstudio/rstudio/issues/2656#issuecomment-1044764917)
 - []()

#### What did you struggle with?

A lot of things. I had to take a half day on Tuesday and then nearly the whole
day on Wednesday due to mental health and lack of internet. After that I was
able to be fairly productive. 

#### What would you like to work on next week?

* implement the search bar for the lessons
* implement the AIO page
* finalize beta phase plan

#### Where do you need help from François?

Nowhere at the moment.

#### Any other topics

Ha! Ha! Slack is down! GitHub is down (in some places)!

### Date: 2022-02-11

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I helped my friend by giving her a place to stay for a couple of days
 - I helped unblur the RStudio logo on our website for Erin
 - I provided a status update for https://github.com/carpentries/strategic-plan/issues/9 for Kari

#### Who helped you this week?

 - François helped silence my paranoia brain this morning when I was thinking about the infrastructure
 - Toby and Sarah helped me by responding to thier Git issues. 
 - François, Erin, Toby, and Michael helped by reviewing my UseR! proposal
 - Karen helped me by giving me context for how she conducted her instructor training update and who I should contact wrt beta testing with the instructors
 - Omar helped me by coming up with really sweet hex stickers

#### What did you achieve?

 - [(Beta Plan) I drafted the initial beta phase plan](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1F3orzvirzsguJDKmU_66DsQRX77PKZw2O4Dc8JzgdTs/edit)
 - [(UseR! 2022 workshop proposal) drafted](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ne1eRjRpYlJUHa__H_2DHBTu3gX1yAqaUAyRdV8Rzz4/edit#)
 - [(UseR! 2022 workshop proposal) drafted](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ne1eRjRpYlJUHa__H_2DHBTu3gX1yAqaUAyRdV8Rzz4/edit#)
 - [{sandpaper} a WHOLE BUNCHA WORK that simplified the process of building](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/commits?author=zkamvar&since=2022-02-07&until=2022-02-12)
 - Miscellaneous other things that my brain is too tired to remember.

#### What did you struggle with?

Coming to terms with the fact that my code is slow for now. 

#### What would you like to work on next week?

* submit the proposal to UseR! 2022
* implement the search bar for the lessons
* implement the AIO page
* finalize beta phase plan

#### Where do you need help from François?

Nowhere at the moment.

#### Any other topics

Refactoring is hard, but I'm glad I did it. The AIO page should not take too 
much effort to implement. The search bar is an interesting beast because it
works a bit differently than was set up in the bytes.co template. I wrote
it up in a commit here: https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/commit/e61903281c78a3d03ed89f9c3dba2f1a3cd8fbfd.
Effectively, during the design process we never envisioned what the search would
look like from the user's end because right now we have a search bar that points
people to a new page, so that's why people use the AIO page. The pkgdown search
bar implements one that really does not need a button because it generates a
dropdown menu from the search and then it is up to the user to select from that
menu. I can see us being able to implement it either way, but from usage, I get
the feeling that people would much prefer a dynamic search bar (I know I would,
but it's not clear what the a11y implications are [though I know that bootstrap
has some documentation on that]) because that's effectively what they use the 
all in one page for.

### Date: 2022-02-04

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I helped Toby by swapping lab meetings with him when he was feeling a bit
   overwhelemed.
 - I helped the team by anonymizing applications
 - I deleted a SPAM post for Omar
 - I added Toby to the instructor-training repository so that toby could be
   assigned to a task
 - I helped Alycia with editing a blog post on GitHub

#### Who helped you this week?

 - The entire team really helped me by being enthusiastic about The Carpentries Workbench
 - Toby and Michael helped me by explaining that there were a lot of features that I did not show in my demonstration during the lab meeting. 
 - Toby asked a really good question about prioritization of requests from the community
 - Kari asked a really good question about what the next steps are for the rollout
 - Allison Hill posted a link to an effective way to get feedback about a software project
 - Toby and Sarah Stevens pointed out issues that they had with the infrastructure
 - Two community members emailed me telling me that The Workbench was perfect for their needs

#### What did you achieve?

 - [(blog) The Carpentries Workbench blog post was published](https://github.com/carpentries/carpentries.org/pull/1308)
 - [{sandpaper} got four releases](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/releases)
 - [{sandpaper} started refactor of global variables for varnish](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/248)
 - [{varnish} fixed logo; add tracking; update license](https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/releases)
 - [{pegboard} fix a bug in keypoints and update license information](https://github.com/carpentries/pegboard/releases)
 - [(transformation) rebuilt and published most of the test lessons](https://github.com/fishtree-attempt/)
 - [(universe) only publish releases on the universe](https://github.com/carpentries/universe/commit/01fed5509b720d210a8ea5ce1a4b2a0345693077)
 - Presented The Carpentries Workbench at the Core Team meeting
 - Anonymized fifteen applications


#### What did you struggle with?

Refactoring on a Friday :weary:

#### What would you like to work on next week?

* clean up some of the spaghetti code in sandpaper
* plan beta phase with expected feedback and outcomes
* submit the proposal to UseR! 2022

#### Where do you need help from François?

Nowhere at the moment.

#### Any other topics

I had to nap right after the Core Team meeting. I think I've been doing so much
deep work that being in the spotlight is a bit uncomfortable and slightly
exhausting. The refactoring that I tried to tackle this week is important work
because it will make things easier for us to pivot when new things need to be
added or the build system needs to change. 

### Date: 2022-01-28

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I helped Toby by telling him about my plans for the credits page
 - I helped Annajiat by telling him about our perspectives and resources for i18n
 - I helped a lesson developer by pointing to resources for including math in the lessons
 - I helped a community member by pointing out a fix for the raster package isntallation issues

#### Who helped you this week?

 - François, Maneesha, and Talisha helped me by clarifying license language
 - The entire Curriculum Development Team helped me by brainstorming on ways I could run community discussions
 - François helped me by discussing my plans and how my work fit in with our Grants and Strategic Plan
 - Toby, François, Omar, and Alycia helped me by reviewing my blog post
 - Danielle Navarro gave me permission to use the title "workbench" for our infrastructure.

#### What did you achieve?

 - [(blog) I wrote a blog post about The Carpentries Workbench](https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/01/live-lesson-infrastructure/)
 - [{sandpaper} ](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/commits?author=zkamvar&since=2022-01-24&until=2022-01-29)
 - [{varnish} fixed some visual elements; add blockquotes; update footer; update readme](https://github.com/carpentries/varnish/commits?author=zkamvar&since=2022-01-24&until=2022-01-29)
 - [(documentation) update documentation for The Workbench](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper-docs/commits?author=zkamvar&since=2022-01-24&until=2022-01-29)
 - Created two templates for the lessons created via the Workbench: https://github.com/carpentries/workbench-template-rmd and https://github.com/carpentries/workbench-template-md
 - [(actions) speed up the provisioning of R packages for R-based lessons](https://github.com/carpentries/actions/commits?author=zkamvar&since=2022-01-24&until=2022-01-29)

#### What did you struggle with?

I can not remember to be honest. 

#### What would you like to work on next week?

* fix an error in varnish that is causing the assets folder to be ignored in some contexts
* clean up some of the spaghetti code in sandpaper

#### Where do you need help from François?

Still relevant!

* Please clone the sandpaper documentation site and then do two things:
   1. build it with the current version of sandpaper and varnish
   2. install the pull requests on sandpaper and varnish and then build it again
      (though be aware that I need to add a catch that invalidates a part of the
      cache, but I'm le tired and can't remember what it is)

#### Any other topics

This was another heavy week, but I'm proud of the work that I did. It feels like
a lot of work and only a little bit of work at the same time, IDK, it's weird. 
I still fear that folks will complain about how slow the infrastructure is, but
I just need to remember that we will speed it up in the end. 

### Date: 2022-01-21

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I helped Toby get started with his lesson
 - I helped Michael by fixing an RMarkdown rendering error
 - I helped Dan by taking notes at the Maintainer Meeting
 - I helped Omar be reassuring him that it was absolutely no problem to not have
   the sticker designs finished by this week. 

#### Who helped you this week?

 - Toby helped me by being up for and positive about testing out the new
   infrastructure. There were a couple of bumps, but nothing that he nor I
   could not get over
 - Dan helped me by doing a bang-up job of running the maintainer meetings.

#### What did you achieve?

 - added the instructor view to the lessons
 - [debugged an odd behavior with pandoc 2.17](https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/issues/7843)
 - added navigational elements into the new frontend
 - added some basic metadata generation to the lessons, which I have 
   demonstrated working in the [R Ecology Lesson in the fishtree-attempt
   repo](https://validator.schema.org/#url=https%3A%2F%2Ffishtree-attempt.github.io%2FR-ecology-lesson%2F04-visualization-ggplot2.html)
 - migrated the building of the JS/CSS over to varnish
 - wrote some new tests for the infrastructure (but still need to write more)

#### What did you struggle with?

The Lua filters were throwing me for a loop plus the fact that the builds are
now slower messed with my self-confidence a bit, but it will be added value when
I make changes that automatically speed up the infrastructure. 

#### What would you like to work on next week?

* fix how our github actions installs lesson dependencies. 
* add CITATION.cff file to lesson tempalte for metadata
* release sandpaper and varnish 0.1.0
* write the blog post and show off

#### Where do you need help from François?

* Please clone the sandpaper documentation site and then do two things:
   1. build it with the current version of sandpaper and varnish
   2. install the pull requests on sandpaper and varnish and then build it again
      (though be aware that I need to add a catch that invalidates a part of the
      cache, but I'm le tired and can't remember what it is)

#### Any other topics

We close on our house next week and thus I am dealing with all sortsa stress rn.
The lesson is coming along, its still a bit rusty and demonstrating it is not
very nice because there is a delay between when you save a file and it builds
on the screen (~3-4 seconds), but it _does_ work. 

My coach mentioned that I need to sit down and really take a look from the top
down about how my work fits in with the strategic plan because at the moment, I
am working in a very task-based manner that is causing a lot of anxiety. I'm 
going to try to accomplish this during the next R&R day. 


### Date: 2022-01-14

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I helped François by taking notes at the CT meeting
 - I helped Alycia by asking relevant questions at the data Sovereignty meeting.

#### Who helped you this week?

 - Alycia and Toby helped me by providing good context and followups for the
   Data Sovereignty meeting.
 - Kari helped me by asking specifics about the plans for the new
   infrastructure rollout in relation to instructors

#### What did you achieve?

I have gotten _very_ close to releasing the new version of sandpaper and
varnish (the engine and the styling, respectively). The only hangups right now
are issues around failing tests on windows with pandoc. This project has taken 
up the vast majority of my time aside from meetings.

#### What did you struggle with?

Pandoc Lua filters and random css/javascript funkiness

#### What would you like to work on next week?

* add the appropriate links and navbar for the lesson
* add CITATION.cff file to lesson tempalte for metadata
* release sandpaper and varnish 0.1.0

#### Where do you need help from François?

* nowhere at the moment

#### Any other topics

I am excited for the new changes and one of the things that's currently dragging
me down is the fact that it takes 10 minutes for the CI to run through the 
checks. It's something that I'm aware of and there's not much I can do about it
right now. The thing that's making my life difficult is testing on Windows
because it uses the nightly builds of pandoc, but there are changes in the lua
filters that are causing my old filters to break, which is partially because I 
only _kinda_ know what the heck I'm doing with them. The last error gave me line
numbers, so I can definitely work with that next time I pick it up on Monday.

### Date: 2022-01-07

#### Who did you help this week?

 - I helped Michael with technical support for the new infrastructure
 - I helped a community member by fixing a bug on Windows

#### Who helped you this week?

 - Alycia helped me by providing me ample context for our meeting regarding CARE principles next week
 - Toby helped me by succinctly explaining our plan for the metadata on our lessons
 - François helped me by reminding me about the CZI grant deliverables so that I could prioritize my work

#### What did you achieve?

 - [{sandpaper} fixed a bug coming from the new version of {renv}](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/225)
 - [{sandpaper} fixed a bug with lua filters](https://github.com/carpentries/sandpaper/pull/226)
 - [{actions} made the lesson dependencies respect github packages and simplify](https://github.com/carpentries/actions/pull/35)
 - [{pegboard} fixed a bug on windows if the user's library had spaces in the path](https://github.com/carpentries/pegboard/pull/73)
 - [tested and explored new frontend](https://zkamvar.github.io/shellac/student_carpentries.html)
 - Had a meeting with the people from Zenodo regarding metadata
 - Drafted 3 month roadmap for the lesson infrastructure

#### What did you struggle with?

Trying to find a fix and a test for a windows error was definitely challenging,
but I think some of the most challenging things have been trying to come up
with a succinct way to fit the framework of the new frontend into our existing
framework. I've had to fix a couple of minor mistakes from the code, but there
are additional things that I should add to make sure that the new lessons have
pairity with the old lessons. A salient example is code highlighting, which 
pandoc does via spans, but this was not provided during the design or the coding.
When we asked the coding contractor about it, they mentioned how this method 
may be problematic, but did not give a specific example of how it was so.

There is also the idea of how should I properly add or modify the work from the
contractors? They worked with it and did all the testing to make sure that it is
up to WCAG AA standards, so how do I know that I can modify it to suit our build
process? 

#### What would you like to work on next week?


* setup the new frontend to work for our lessons
* add CITATION.cff file to lesson tempalte for metadata

#### Where do you need help from François?

* nowhere at the moment

#### Any other topics

I think I acatually put all of this in the "what did you struggle with" section

